# Proposal for OAI Representation at API-related Conferences

## Erik Wilde, erik.wilde@dret.net, June 15, 2023

OAI is interested in getting better recognition and visibility at relevant industry and community events. There is no shortage of API-related events out there, but the question is how to best select and invest in events. For API Days, there is a good relationship with the main organizer and they would be happy to provide a platform for OAI. But it needs to happen in a predictable and organized way for them so that they can for example plan it as a regular track at their events.

For other events that's a similarly interesting question, but it may also boil down to the question of how to build relationships with organizers so that they know they can use and support the OAI brand. In return they will get a set of speakers and a track that is a valuable addition to their events.

For all events I can provide support and visibility through my social channels. That includes teasers and reports for all events so that OAI does become more visible to the general API community. I would expect for OAI marketing to collaborate and boost posts in the most effective way possible.


### API Days Events

For API Days events, it seems to be clear that the organizers are willing to support OAI but haven't seen the coordinated effort on the OAI side to make it work for them as a (semi-)permanent OAI track. It seems that this could be done relatively easily without too much effort with a coordinated marketing effort between OAI and API days and somebody coordinating this effort. That somebody could be me.

I would see my role mostly as using my standing and visibility in the API community to attract submissions and make sure that the OAI track gets visibility and recognition. This works much better if this isn't a one-time effort but if there's a routine that everybody involved (myself, OAI, API Days) can follow.

My estimate for doing this on a per-event basis is a few days of effort per event. Translating that into budget, that's translates to a flat fee of $4000 per event where I agree to host and push and organize the OAI track. That doesn't mean I'll be there but that probably always would be a good idea.

For most events being there is almost a must. Many events are relatively nearby since I am located in Switzerland, but some are a bit further away. However, even though travel cost seem to be going up these days, compared to the overall cost and the advantage of having a consistent presence that doesn't seem to be such a great concern.

The event cost simply add up to travel and accommodation cost, plus a flat fee for organizing things on the ground of $1000. From my experience in what marketing cost usually look like, this is all very typical and on the lower end of things. That's because we're assuming API Days are collaborating and we just have to absorb the cost of those putting in the work to really make it happen.
  

### All Things Open

This is an event I haven't been involved with so far but it looks interesting and relevant. I would apply the same model as outlined above in terms or organizing an OAI track and participating to make the OAI track successful at the event. In terms of travel it seems like one of the locations that's not nearby but where travel cost still would be very reasonable.


### Other Events

API Days are a great event series but they are only one possible route for visibility and outreach. There probably are many others and I am willing to discuss models how to use other events. In the end, in my mind all of this is a good deal about scalability: If you have something to work with that's great it makes more sense to invest in fewer but proven events than spreading yourself out too thinly.

One additional event I want to suggest is the [API Conference Series](https://apiconference.net/). It's a series I have been involved in a fair bit and it's a good mix of developers and strategists. I could connect OAI to the organizers and see where this is going, but I could very well imagine this going a similar path as API Days. For the organizers it could be great validation and credibility to have OAI there and for OAI it could be another series of events to get involved with.

There surely are other events and event series to consider. My proposal is to get started with API Days and make sure there is some plan and organization in place that goes beyond just one event. We could even announce this as a "strategic partnership" to make it marketable for everybody involved. API conferences is another good target but beyond that I'd suggest to wait and see how we see those collaborations working. Then we can take it to the next level.

